+++
categories = []
date = "2017-06-05T12:46:33-05:00"
description = ""
tags = ["Ireland"]
series = ["Colossians Devotional"]
title = "Colossians 1:21-23"
draft = false
og_image = "/images/ireland-header.png"
+++

In the Colossian Hymn (1:15–20), Paul zooms out to see the whole universe of Jesus’s reconciling work. Paul now zooms in to examine the impact of that work on the Colossian believers (and us). He begins with our former state: “alienated and hostile in mind.” Because of the fall, this is the starting point for all human beings. We are all alienated from God by sin. Not only are we alienated, but we are hostile towards God. The problem is not just that we do sin; the problem is we love sin and hate God.

Such a hostile disposition required a reality-reshaping response. This is what happened at the cross. Jesus's cosmological purpose was to reconcile all things to himself (1:20) and his death accomplished this for human beings. What a mercy, that while we enemies God reconciled us to himself through the death of his Son (Rom 5:10)! Return to the status quo would be good news indeed, but Jesus’s plan takes us further.

He reconciled you “in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him” (1:22). God’s will and eternal plan for every believer is personal holiness. God will give the fruits of the Spirit to those who ask. God will remove sin and give power to resist temptation to those who ask. “For this is the will of God: your sanctification” (1 Thess 4:3). We can pray the prayers in Colossians 1 with confidence knowing God is able and willing to answer because Christ is preeminent (Col 1:15–20) and Christ has reconciled us to himself (Col 1:21–23).

If we should have such confidence, why does Paul include the warning in verse 23? Is the warning empty? No, for those who do not continue in the faith will not be presented before God holy and blameless and above reproach. Those who set their hope in places other than the gospel will ultimately be let down. Why warn believers then? Paul is writing to warn the Colossians to continue in the faith they received from Epaphras. They faced false teachers encouraging them to set their hope for perseverance and sanctification in worldly philosophy. Paul is warning the Colossians of the cost of this error and admonishing them not to fall prey to it. Let us take this warning to heart and remain stable and steadfast in the hope of the gospel God has given us.

* How should our former state (“alienated and hostile”) inform the way we do evangelism?
* Is the condition in verse 23 a condition of salvation or sanctification?

_Jesus, thank you for your death. Thank you for the blood-price you paid for our sanctification. Enable us to remain stable and steadfast in you. Bind our wandering hearts to thee. Amen._
