+++
categories = []
date = "2017-06-04T12:46:33-05:00"
description = ""
tags = ["Ireland"]
series = ["Colossians Devotional"]
title = "Colossians 1:15–20"
draft = false
og_image = "/images/ireland-header.png"
+++

Colossians 1:15–20 is probably the most well-known section of Paul’s letter. Called the Colossian Hymn, this paragraph forms a three-verse hymn echoing the refrain of Christ’s preeminence.
The first verse of the hymn exalts Jesus as the firstborn of the first creation. He is the image of the invisible God and shows us perfectly what our first parents were supposed to be. When God said, “let us make man in our image,” Jesus was the template (Gen 1:26). All creation was created by him and through him and for him. Only Jesus, as part of the Godhead, can lay claim to independence from a creator. He preceded everything and is preeminent over the first creation.
The second verse of the hymn exalts Jesus as master over creation. Not only is he before all things, but he upholds all things. Hebrews 1:3 says he “upholds the universe by the word of his power.” Who could exercise more mastery over creation than the one who upholds its existence? Not only is Jesus master over the universe, but he is master over the church as its head.
The third verse of the hymn exalts Jesus as the firstborn of the new creation. He is the “firstborn from the dead” (1:18). We were once dead in sin and through Jesus, we have been reborn as children of God. As God’s risen Son, Jesus is the firstborn of this new creation. He has reconciled us to God by the blood of the cross.
What does Jesus preeminence mean for the church? It means when we hope in the gospel of Jesus (1:4–8), it is not empty hope. We are hoping in the preeminent Christ. It means when we seek God’s will, Jesus is perfectly suited—as his image—to reveal it to us (1:9, 15). It means when we are strengthened with power “according to his glorious might,” we are strengthened with the might that upholds the universe. It means we need fear nothing in all creation (visible or invisible), because our caring Lord is sovereign over all.
Let’s draw great confidence from our preeminent Lord Jesus today as we face the spiritual depression and darkness in Dublin. And let’s encourage the saints to set their hope fully on the grace of Jesus Christ (1 Pet 1:13).

* How does the “blood of the cross” (a violent act) make peace?
* Why do you think Paul specifically mentions Christ’s preeminence over thrones, dominions, rulers, and authorities?

_Jesus, our sovereign head, we praise you. You are before all things and over all things and preeminent in all things. Give us great confidence in your benevolent rule today. Amen._
