+++
categories = []
date = "2017-06-09T16:41:28+01:00"
description = ""
tags = ["Ireland"]
series = ["Colossians Devotional"]
title = "Colossians 2:16-23"
draft = false
og_image = "/images/ireland-header.png"
+++

All who love Jesus want to obey God’s commandments and grow in holiness and wisdom. This is what made the false teachers in Colossae so dangerous. They promised 10 Steps to Fulfill the Ten Commandments. They advertised secret knowledge from spirits and visions. They promised their rules could restrain the unruly flesh. The false teachers sold snake oil—they held out the hope of life, but it was a lie. In Colossians 2:16–23, Paul exposes the false hope of the false teachers by pointing to the true hope in Jesus Christ.

He begins with the law. “Let no one pass judgement on you” (2:16). As Gentile converts, the Colossians did not observe laws like the food laws. But the false teachers insisted on righteousness through observing the law. They thought the law was the point! Paul points out the foolishness of this: the law belongs to Christ, not Christ to the law. The law is a shadow meant to point to Christ (Heb 10:1). Christ is the only hope for living free of the law's judgement because he fulfills the law.

Paul moves on to inclusion in the community and Christian growth. “Let no one disqualify you,” he writes (2:18). The language he uses here alludes to mystery religions with secret initiation rites (similar to modern-day scientology). The false teachers claimed the path to knowledge was through visions and worshipping angels. Paul exposes this lie by pointing to Jesus, the head of the church, as the true path to knowledge. Christians grow in the knowledge of God by holding fast to Jesus, not by appeasing the spirits of the world.
Last, Paul addresses the Colossians’ striving for holiness. “Why...do you submit to regulations?” (2:20). The false teachers taught severe treatment of the body lead to personal holiness. Their method seemed wise, but true wisdom only comes through Jesus. Indeed, these things were of “no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh” (2:23).

How easily are we tempted by spiritual snake oil? In our struggle against sin and in our striving for holiness, we are desperate to try anything we think will work. But spiritual snake oil spoils in the presence of the true medicine prescribed by our great physician. Jesus is our true hope. Let us hold methods and techniques up to the light of his word.

*	Paul writes false teachers are “puffed up…by [their] sensuous (‘fleshly’) mind” (2:18). How can a fleshly mind lead us astray?
*	How do we “hold fast to the head” who is Christ (2:19)?

_Jesus our wisdom, the law and the prophets point to you. Angels serve you. Holiness flows from you. Guard us against putting our hope in human precepts and teachings. Help us discern what is true. Amen._
