+++
categories = []
date = "2017-06-12T16:41:28+01:00"
description = ""
tags = ["Ireland"]
series = ["Colossians Devotional"]
title = "Colossians 3:12-17"
draft = false
og_image = "/images/ireland-header.png"
+++

Finished with the old nature, Paul flips the coin over and examines our new nature in Christ Jesus. Love for one another and submission to Christ's lordship characterizes this new nature.

Paul calls the Colossians to put on the new nature. The virtues he lists are not unique to Christianity. People can be compassionate, kind, and so on, without loving Jesus. What is unique about this list is the modifiers. The saints are to put on “as God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved.” This points to the supernatural origin of the new nature. They put on Christ because God has delivered them from the kingdom of darkness (1:13–14). Further, Paul calls them to put on these virtues while “bearing with one another” and “forgiving each other” (3:13). Meekness is easier when everything is going well. Meekness when you feel wronged is another matter entirely. Forgiving as we have been forgiven is what is supernatural about this list and the new nature in Christ. Paul summarizes all this in the call to love one another. As Peter writes, “Love covers a multitude of sins” (1 Pet 4:8). Love for one another enables us to put on Christian virtues with forbearance and forgiveness. And the fuel of this love is thankful submission to the lordship of Christ.

Paul exhorts the Colossians to thankfully submit to Christ’s lordship in three ways. They must “let the peace of Christ rule” in their hearts (3:15). They must “let the word of Christ dwell” in them (3:16). And they must “do everything in the name” of Christ (3:17). Each of these verses ends with the exhortation to be thankful. To give thanks to God is to acknowledge him as the creator and source of all that is good. Thankful submission to Christ’s lordship will center our hope on Christ, which will in turn strengthen our faith and lead us to love one another.
Each day here in Ireland, we need to put on our new nature in Christ Jesus. Those of us who find this difficult are probably having difficulty submitting to the lordship of Christ over our hearts or circumstances. How is your heart today? Are you submitting to Christ with thanksgiving? Let us all let Jesus’s peace rule us and his word dwell in us so that everything we do is in his name, for his glory and our joy.

*	How could you put on one of the virtues (compassion, kindness, etc.), but lack forgiveness and love? When are you tempted to do that?
*	How does singing factor in to “teaching and admonishing” while letting “the word of Christ dwell in you richly” (3:16)?

_Lord Jesus, thank you for calling us holy and beloved. You love us with an everlasting love. Help us to turn and love one another. Strengthen the weak and fill the empty. Give us compassion for one another. Amen._
